it's going to be tense coloring a bully
is a different story
coloring a female we don't have the
family to worry about but there are a
lot bigger a lot stronger and yeah they
can be a bit more alarming and sometimes
they can have a bit more difficulty
getting up afterwards so yeah we've not
lost one yet but we don't want to we
don't want to start now but it's a risk
worth taking
bull elephants range far beyond the
safety of the reserve finding out where
they go and why is crucial to help
protect them they're larger tusks also
make them a valuable target for poachers
so keeping tabs on Edison is important
it's Frank's job to make sure everyone
is safe
everybody's got to stay in their cars
until explicitly told otherwise
okay and everyone's got to be as quiet
as possible the main idea here is to
keep the stress down because the quietiy
we can be and the more we can let the
elephant be relaxed when the dart goes
in the better okay
he's actually coming out of the bush now
so lets everyone just slowly get into
the cars some you can get a dart from
here if we get a chance the team gets
into position to administer the
tranquilizer dart
they will have to wait eight minutes for
the sedative to take effect until it
does
Edison's reaction could be unpredictable
but there's an unexpected complication
they draw them uh there's some kids up
above the ladder near the road good boy
yeah get those there's some group kids
there's like three of them just get them
out of it okay some Samburu children and
their goats have walked straight into
Edison's path a dangerous place to be
certainly not something you expect
inside a national park to have kids
running around with their goats but
yeah it's just one of these extra
variables that they don't think of this
could upset the confused elephant Maki
looks pretty common that's a risk that
if you saw kids on the photo any little
like over as soon as I saw the Ranger
there just fled because I thought
they're in trouble
it looks like the goats going in other
way so let's do that variable other way
Edison's getting quite woozy six minutes
the sedative is taking effect
yes if need to I'm hoping it goes down
on its side
too much tranquilizer and his system is
dangerous so they've given him as little
as possible they only have 20 minutes to
fit the column
you